---
layout: post
title:  "My Story"
date:   2025-07-05 23:19:55 +0330
categories: jekyll update
---
I was born in 1998, in Dab-bakh-lar neighborhood – literally "tanners' district" in Azeri – in Zanjan, northwest Iran. They processed animal hides there once, but not by the time I was growing up. My dad was training to be a doctor; my mom taught high school natural sciences. So I grew up curious about science and stuff.

At 14, I passed the entrance exam for "Sampad" – Iran’s national high school for "shining talents". (Yes, it sounds cringe. That’s the translation.) In Iran, high school ends with the "Konkur" – the national university entrance exam. I ranked 1747th in my group (I like that number – 747). That got me into Iran University of Science and Technology (IUST) (founded in 1929 in Tehran as Iran's first engineering institution, originally named the Governmental Technical Institute) for Mechanical Engineering – specifically, Rolling Stock Engineering (focused on railroad vehicles).

During my bachelor’s, I felt something linger in me. I wanted to create – to "make a dent in the universe" as Steve Jobs put it. I got drawn to design. Started with engineering design: parts, small machines. The further I went, the more I wanted broader design paradigms – not just engineering. So I took the master’s Konkur for Industrial Design. Scored first in theory, fourth overall. Got into University of Tehran – one of Iran’s "big three".

There, I realized design is more than form. Every object – even non-designed ones – has a non-physical layer. A soul. I found myself drawn to that very soul more than its physical shape. (I also met my wonderful girlfriend there – who, like me, started with engineering but ended up in design, now a product designer at MCI, Iran’s largest communication company.)

From around 25-26, this sense began to grow inside me slowly that: Hay! You knew nothing about the world until now. You spent years staring outside —but you must have looked inside. That’s life’s brutal irony: To see the world outside, to live "out there" one has to look inside, to feel what's happening "in here".

**"The eyes face outward but the ocular lays inside."**

And that’s when it hit me: Holy cow. I’d been dead until this very long moment. I was born again—right then. At 27. It took me 27 years to get out of "my" uterus. I stood there, thinking:

**"Was that life? Well then... Once more."**

Once more being born. Once more growing up. Once more tasting everything. But this time being there, all of you.Once more, that's the beginning of my story.
